RESUME MENTION:

* Overview: Web portal for scholarship application and processing of needful students as CSR activity of Bluestar foundation.
* Technology: React JS, Material UI, Axios, Redux toolkit, Redux-Saga, Formik, Yup, React router, NPM
* Responsibilities:
  1. Gather and analyze business requirements with stakeholders.
  2. Collaborated with UX designers to create visually appealing, responsive designs.
  3. Collaborated with backend developers to integrate RESTful API.
  4. Built reusable components to reduce code duplication and speed up development.

---

WORK FLOW UNDERSTANDING:

Usecase:

Entities/Modules:

1. Student => Student signup, Student onboard, interview
2. Institute => Institute onboard
3. Institute co-ordinator => IC onboard
4. Admin => Onboarding

* All users will be registered in Cognito. In cognito there will be 3 groups/roles – admin, icadmin, students.

Onboarding Sequence:

1. Bluestar admin registers themselves through a link, clicking it opens registration form and upon submit gets email verification link. On success, admin added in cognito with role admin.
2. Admin does "Add Institute" by fillling form and adding basic details and email of institute coordinator. Then configure number of invitiations, selections.
3. Admin sends invite to IC for onboarding himself and onboarding institute.
4. When IC onboards, he/she gets registered on Cognito with role icadmin. Then he completes institute details and onboards institute.
5. IC checks students from his institute which match the criteria for scholarship and onboard student. IC adds Student emails upto specific number and sends invitations.
6. Student registers through onboarding email and registers on cognito with role student.
7. Student interview, scheduling, selection process, if passed then processing fee and giving invoice.

---

LEARNINGS:

General Page:

```javascript
import React from 'react';
import PropTypes from 'prop-types';
import { connect } from 'react-redux';
import { compose } from 'redux';
import { createStructuredSelector } from 'reselect';

// import ..... MUI components;

import { useStyles } from './styles';

export const TypicalContainer = props => {
 const {..., ...} = props; // destructred props
 const classes = useStyles();

 return (
	// UI Code
 );
};

TypicalContainer.propTypes = {
// ... all prop types
};

const mapStateToProps = createStructuredSelector({
// ... selectors
});

const mapDispatchToProps = dispatch => ({
  dispatch,
});

const withConnect = connect(
  mapStateToProps,
  mapDispatchToProps,
);

export default compose(withConnect)(TypicalContainer);
```

---

FORM:

---

https://xd.adobe.com/view/d7ebc233-e399-4168-876e-57c4c95c450d-82b8/grid
