RESUME MENTION:

* Overview: Desktop application in healthcare domain. Used to integrate EHR with different diagnostic Labs and LIS systems for placing the lab test order of patients.
* Technology: HTML, CSS, JavaScript, Node.js, Express.js, MongoDB, HIPPA training
* Responsibilities:
  1. Lab requisition form development and testing, patient HL7 data mapping.
  2. Implement functionality using Model View Controller (MVC) design pattern.
  3. Implement REST API using Node.js and Express to consume in frontend app.
  4. Write queries to store, retrieve, and modify patient data in Mongo DB for labs.
  5. Discuss solutions and blockers in daily stand-up meetings with the US client.

---

WORK FLOW UNDERSTANDING:

Usecase:

* This is actually a startup in US healthcare market.
* It's a healthcare automation software and their primary use case was integrating EHR with different Lab systems.
* **EHR**: Electronic Health Record or Elctronic Medical Record. A digital version of a patient’s medical history, including diagnoses, medications, treatment plans, immunizations, allergies, lab results, and clinical notes. EHRs are designed to be shared across different healthcare settings.
* **Labs**: Refers to clinical laboratories that perform diagnostic tests (blood, urine, pathology, microbiology, etc.) and the test results they generate for patient care. Labs can use HL7 data format or API.
* **LIS**: A specialized software system used by laboratories to manage lab workflows, including test ordering, specimen tracking, result entry, quality control, and reporting. LIS typically integrates with EHR/EMR systems to send results to clinicians.
* User Portal: Select EHR + Lab/LIS, add pod configuration
* Every lab will have its own db instance where it stores orders and lab results.
* Orders were stored in a SFTP server.
* **HL7**: Health Level 7 is a set of international standards used to exchange healthcare data between different systems like EHRs, LIS systems, Hospitals, Labs, Billing and insurance systems. The data exchange happens in a predefined format.
* **HIPAA**: It stands for Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act is a law in US that deals with security of PHI (Protected Health Information) of people since it is sensitive and easy to misuse or tamper. So as developers we are supposed to follow the process and compliance.

**Labs** –  **Laboratory Services / Laboratory Data** : Refers to clinical laboratories that perform diagnostic tests (blood, urine, pathology, microbiology, etc.) and the test results they generate for patient care.

Flow:

* Every lab has its own user portal where user configures his role, the EHR and physician details.
* The application is a native desktop application which has two windows, the windows or PODs they are separate instances of chromium browser.
* When user logs into the application, on the left window, EHR selected on user portal opens up. It shows list of patients present in the EHR.
* When user selects a patient, he clicks on Order test button. Then lab form opens in right window.
* Selected patient's data is collected from EHR and either by making an API call to EMR OR if API is unavilable, the web page of patient details is crawled and data is collected from UI fields by web scraping. The data is exchanged with the lab in form of HL7 format.
* Then browser/POD renders the requisition form of the lab and loads the patient data and parses the HL7 into Javascript object.
* Patient data is mapped and populated on static form sections and test panel for selected lab is displayed in dynamic section.
* User selects the tests and submits the form. Lab order is placed, the form is processed in backend and data is saved in db.
* The PDF is generated of the requisition form and uploaded to an S3 bucket, the form metadata is stored in database.
* Lab results are available for any given order in a few days.

---

LEARNINGS:

1] Views:

- Every form has static and dynamic part.
- Static part has sections which are common across all the lab forms.
- Dynamic part has sections which are specific to a particular lab such as test sections which the lab can offer.
- EJS has this syntax like <%= .... %> where in we can write javascript code.
- Form validation??

2] Controllers:

3] Models:Entities in DB:

* Patients
* Lab orders - Of patients
* Lab results - Of patients

---

**Requisition Forms Types:**

1. PGx - Pharmacogenomics
2. Toxicology
3. RPx
4. RPP - Respiratory Pathogen Panel
5. Covid
6. Blood
7. Wound
8. Core
9. Molecular
10. PCR

**Test Panels:**

1. Respiratory
2. Ear, Nose and Throat
3. Covid 19
4. Gastrointestinal
5. Fungas panel
6. Wound
7. Urinary Tract Infection (UTI)
8. Women's Health
9. Sexually Transmitted Infection (STI)

**Requisition Form structure (Megaform)**

**Static sections:**

1. Patient demographics - Name, Gender, DOB, SSN etc
2. Provider Information
3. Insurance information - Primary, secondary & Tertiary insurance
4. Specimen sample collection date, time, collector name
5. ICD-10 codes/ diagnosis codes

**Dynamic Sections:**

1. Specimen types
2. Specimen source
3. Tests panel (select the test to order)
4. Patient consent & Medical necessity - Contains patient & provider signature saying that the patient is willing to give his sample and perform the test.

**Specimen Sample types:**

1. Swab
2. Urine sample
3. Stool sample, Fecal swab
4. Nail clippings
5. Saliva sample
6. Blood sample
7. Serum
8. Plasma
9. Skin Scraping
10. Vaginal Swab, Urethral Swab

---

Libraries, Versions (2021 - 2023):

1. Node: v16
2. Express: v4.17
3. Mongoose: schema validation - v6
4. aws-sdk/client-s3: aws s3 upload - v3
5. puppeteer: HTML to PDF - v13 - 19
6. simple-hl7: HL7 parsing - v3
7. uuid: unique id to req. file - v8.3
8. ejs: templating engine - v3

---

RISKS:

1. Why mongodb for heatlhcare app?
2. Why node express backend?
3. Explain workflow
4. Which built in node packages used?
5. What about security?
6. What is HL7? How is it parsed and transferred?
7. What is HIPAA?

---
