NEURAL NETWORKS:

* Neural networks have layers. Input layer, one or more hidden layers and output layer. Each layer is made up of nodes.

Types of NN:

1. Feedforward Neural Networks, or Multi-Layer Perceptrons (MLPs)
2. Convolutional Neural Networks (CNN)
3. Recurrent Neural Networks (RNN)

==========================================================================================

Output calculation:

x = ∑wixi + bias = w1x1 + w2x2 + w3x3 + bias
y = f(x) = 1 if ∑wixi + b>= 0; 0 if ∑wixi + b < 0. f(x) is Activation function.

Activation Functions:

1. Linear activation function - Linear regression (numerical value)
2. Sigmoid function - Binary classification (probability between 0 and 1)
3. Binary step function - Binary classification (probability either 0 or 1)
4. Softmax function - Multiclass classification (probabilities sum to 1)

Threshold is determined by activation function. If the output is greater than threshold, the neuron is fired and passes data to next layer. Each node acts as an independent linear regression model.

==========================================================================================

Training Process:

1. Weights are initially assigned randomly or using some strategy.
2. Forward propogation - Inputs pass forward through network layer by layer.
3. Error calculation - Loss function - Deviation from expected outcome.
4. Back propogation - Error is sent backwards through network.
5. Gradient descent - Weights are updated iteratively to minimize error.

==========================================================================================

TERMS:

* Features: Inputs to the neural networks. Non numeric features are converted into numeric format by encoding.
* Labels/Targets: Outputs the network is trained to predict
* Number of input layer nodes = Number of features
* Number of output layer nodes = Number and type of target values being predicted. Regression (1 or more continuous outputs), binary classification (1 sigmoid node or 2 softmax nodes), multiclass classification (one softmax node per class), and multi-label classification (one sigmoid node per label).
* Number of hidden layers and neurons: Chosen through experimentation, architecture design, problem complexity, data size, and computational constraints.

Vector:

* It's a 1 dimensional array.
* Input to a particular network layer is a vector. It is n x 1 vector.
* Every layer also has a bias vector i.e. vector containing bias values of all nodes in that layer.

Matrix:

- It's a 2 dimensional array.
- In a a x b matrix, a is number of rows and b is number of columns.

Bias:

- Every node has a bias.
- Bias is not applied to input layer nodes, just hidden and output layers.
- Bias is also updated during training using similar process of weights.
- Every layer has a bias vector i.e vector containing bias values of all nodes in that layer.

Weights:

- Value assigned to connection between two nodes. It's strength between two nodes.
- It is numerical value multiplied when output from one node is passed as input to another node.

Weight matrix:

- Weights between nodes are typically represented using a weight matrix.
- Every layer has its own weight matrix.
- It will be a x b matrix where a - number of nodes in current layer, b - number of nodes in previous layer.

Output vector of a layer = (Input vector to that layer x Weight matrix of that layer) + Bias vector of that layer

---

Large Language Model (LLM):

* LLM is a neural network which has transformer architecture. It is trained on large volumes of text data.
* Transformer model architecture consists of two components or blocks: Encoder + Decoder.
* Encoder: Processes input text and creates contextual representations (understands relationships and meaning).
* Decoder: Uses those representations to generate output tokens one at a time.
* LLMs generate the text by predicting the next most probable word in the sentence.
* Generative AI applications are powered by large language models (LLMs).

Examples:

1. GPT (Generative Pretrained Transformer) : Transformer has only decoder block. Used for text generation.
2. BERT (Bidirectional Encoder Representations from Transformers) : Transformer has only encoder block. Used for natural language understanding.

Steps in training a LLM:

1. Data collection
2. Preprocessing
3. Tokenization
4. Model Architecture (Transformer architecture)
5. Training
6. Evaluation
7. Fine Tuning
8. Testing
9. Deployment
10. Publishing
11. Monitoring
12. Security

---
