AI SEARCH:

- Platform as a Service (PaaS) solution
- Resources - Azure AI Search, Azure Cognitive Search
- Knowledge mining: Ingest => Enrich => Explore
- Data source => Indexer + Enrichment => Search index
- Data source: Blob, table, container, Azure storage, SQL DB, Cosmos DB etc
- Data source where the data to be indexed is stored (though you can also push data directly into an index by using the API).
- URL - https://<search_resource_name>.search.windows.net

Search Engine: Apache Lucene

- Searching data from structured, semi structured or unstructured data
- Supports JSON to index the data

Indexer:

- Populates the fields in the index with values extracted from the source data.
- Loading the data into index after converting it to JSON format.
- An indexer converts documents into JSON and forwards them to a search engine for indexing.

Search Index:

- Collection of JSON documents. Index schema, Index attributes.
- Fields, which the user can query.
- Contains indexed data
- Index schema + Index attributes (searchable, sortable...)
- A content by which we can search in massive data.
- We need to query the search index.
- Search index is created by an indexer.
- Index cannot be updated directly.Drop and recreate new index if required or create new index with another name.

Indexing:

1. Push method: push the JSON document to index via REST or SDK
2. Pull method: pull the data from an external data source and convert it to JSON

Knowledge store:

- Contains enrichments from the skill set
- A place where enriched data is stored

Projections:

- Knowledge stores can contain data in three kinds of projection:

1. Object projections are JSON representations of the indexed documents.
2. File projections are JPEG files containing image data extracted from documents.
3. Table projections create a relational schema for the extracted data.

Enrichment:

- Adding capabilities in the extraction process
- AI enrichment is done during indexing process to make the search index better.

Enrichment skillset
1.Built in skills:

- NLP skills: Key Phrase Extraction, Text Translation, Sentiment analysis, Entity recognition...
- Image processing skills: Image Analysis , Optical Character Recognition...
  2.Custom skills:

Querying:

- Simple query, Full Lucene query
- Query an index - syntax, sorting, filtering, wildcard

Query process:

1. Query parsing
2. Lexical analysis
3. Document retrieval
4. Relevance scoring

---

Scalability and availability:

1. Replicas: Instances of search services
2. Partitions: divide index into multiple storage
3. Search units = replicas x partitions

---

Enrich your data with Azure AI Language:

- Enrich the Azure AI Search indexes with Azure AI Language
- Enrichment pipeline of AI skills - used for custom skills
- Enrichment pipeline contains AI skills

---

Implement advanced search features in Azure AI Search:

- Improve the ranking of a document with term boosting - Lucene parser
- Improve the relevance of results by adding scoring profiles
- Improve an index with analyzers and tokenized terms - Lucene analyser
- Enhance an index to include multiple languages
- Improve search experience by ordering results by distance from a given reference point

---

Build an Azure Machine Learning custom skill for Azure AI Search:
CUSTOM SKILL:??

---

Search data outside the Azure platform in Azure AI Search using Azure Data Factory:

- Outside data is pushed in Azure search index using REST API aka Push API.
- ADF Pipeline is created from source to target.
- Source and targets are called sinks in copy activity.
- Source is external data and target is Azure search index.

---

Maintain an Azure AI Search solution:

- Manage security: Securing inbound and outbound traffic, restricting unauthorised access of documents, data encryption using keys.
- Optimize performance: Establish a baseline performance, check for search(503 responser) or index(207 response) throttle, optimize index size and schema, check performane of individual queries, scale out your index
- Manage cost: Establish a baseline cost, create budget and alerts, check the cost on pricing calculator page
- Improve reliability: Add multiple replicas in different AZ across globe
- Monitor: View metrics in Azure monitor
- Debug search issues: Create debug sessions

---

Perform search re-ranking with semantic ranking in Azure AI Search:

- Semantic ranking: Ability to rank the search results based on context and relevance using natural language processing.
- BM25 ranking: Ranks the search results based on frequency of search terms in document. Azure AI Search uses the BM25 ranking function, by default.
- Semantic ranking = BM25 + Semantic captions and answers.
- It can only retieve 50 results

---

Perform vector search and retrieval in Azure AI Search:

- Vector search: New capability available in AI Search used to index, store and retrieve vector embedding from a search index. You can use it to power applications implementing the Retrieval Augmented Generation (RAG) architecture, similarity and multi-modal searches or recommendation engines.

---
