GEN AI: Generate natural language using LLMs

Azure OpenAI Service resource:

- Subscription name
- Resource group name
- Region
- Unique instance name
- Select a pricing tier

Model types:

- GPT-4
- GPT 3.5
- GPT 35 turbo
- Embeddings model - convert text into numeric vector
- DALL-E

Deployment methods:

1. Azure OpenAI Studio
2. CLI
3. REST API

REST API - Endpoint, API key, Deployment name in request

REST API Endpoints:
GPT 3.5 Turbo:
/completions
/embeddings
/fine-tunes

DALL-E:
/generations
/edits

Embeddings:
/text-embeddings
/image-embeddings

Request - Endpoint URL, http method, headers, request body
Response - status code, headers, body

Header for key: 'Ocp-Apim-Subscription-Key'

Error handling
400 - Bad request
401 - Unauthorized
403 - Forbidden
500 - Internal server error

---

CONTENT GENERATION:

- LLM: Generate content similar to data which it was trained on. Trained on vast quantity of data.
- Transfomer - encoder: semantice representation of training vocabulary, decoder: generate new sequence
  Step 1 - Training text is tokanized. Token - a unique value is assigned to every word in traing vocabulary.
  Step 2 - Embeddings
  Step 3 - Attention layer - used to determine the next token from the sequence of tokens.

Build natural language solutions with Azure OpenAI service:

- C# and Python SDK, REST API
- Model categories:

1. Generative Pre-trained Transformer (GPT)
2. Code
3. Embeddings

Endpoints:

1. Completion
2. ChatCompletion
3. Embeddings

- Call to resource requires - Key, endpoint, deployment name.

---

CODE GENERATION:
Initial codex model was required for gpt3, but for gpt-35-turbo and gpt4, seperate coding model is not required.

Features:

- Understand unknown code
- Explain the code
- Write code from given prompt in given language
- Write functions from comments in code
- Translate code from one language to another
- Write unit tests
- Complete partial code
- Generate comments and documentation
- Fix bugs
- Improve and make code efficient
- Refactor code

---

IMAGE GENERATION:
REST API - To generate response from DALL-E model.

- Endpoint
- Authorisation key
- POST - body - prompt, size, number of images to be generated.

1. Give descriptive prompts
2. Object placement and composition control
3. Style references

- Similar service - Midjourney

---

PROMPT ENGINEERING:

- Designing and giving detailed, accurate prompts to model to get correct results.
- Grounding data: The format of expected output or instructions on how the content is expected to generate.
- Fine tuning
- Hallucinations

1. Section markers
2. Primary, supporting, grounding content
3. Cues

- Request output composition
- System message
- Conversation history
- Few shot learning
- Break down a complex task
- Chain of thought

Chain of thought:

- Break down big problem into small steps
- Each step has own prompt
- Output of one step acts as input to next step

Zero shot learning:

- Prompts do not have examples but are based on general knowledge of model.
- Used for creative scenarios

Temperature control: Randomness of the model

- Less temperature: Factual outputs
- More temperature: More creative output

---

RAG:

- Use a model to generate response, but give it an additional data source to generate the response from.
- Like Adobe AI assistant or Merlin chrome extension.
- Based on the user prompt a query is made to retrive the data from external data source.
- The search happens and the response is given to the model.
- The model then generates content from the data it had retrived.
- Data is added through chat playground of Azure OpenAI studio.

---

RESPONSIBLE AI:
Microsoft Responsible AI principles:

1. Fairness: All AI systems should treat people fairly, regardless of race, belief, gender, sexuality, or other factors.
2. Reliability and safety: All AI systems should give reliable answers with quantifiable confidence levels.
3. Privacy and security: All AI systems should secure and protect sensitive data and operate within applicable data protection laws.
4. Inclusiveness: All AI systems should be available to all users, regardless of their abilities.
5. Transparency: All AI systems should operate understandably and openly.
6. Accountability: All AI systems should be run by people who are accountable for the actions of those systems.

Four stage process for developing and maintaining AI applications:

1. Identify potential harms - Prioritize the harms - Test and verify presence - Document and share details
2. Measure potential harms - manual and automatic testing
3. Mitigate potential harms - At multiple layers of AI solution ->
   1. Model layer
   2. Safety system layer
   3. Metaprompting and grounding layer
   4. User experience layer
4. Operate a responsible AI solution - Pre-release reviews - Phased delivery, incident response, rollback plan, collecting user feedback, block users who misuse, telemetry

---

Microsoft Co-pilot:

1. Is it OS specific?
2. Is it dependent on hardware/processor?
3. What are it's usecases?
4. Apart from generative AI, what are the other tasks it can perform?
5. What makes it different then chatGPT, midjourney etc?

---
