TYPES OF ENCRYPTION

Symmetric Encryption: Same key is used for encryption and decryption

Asymmetric Encryption: Two keys - Public key and private key

---

ASYMETTRIC ENCRYPTION:

- Asymmetric encryption - Uses public & private keys. Both sender and receiver each have their own public-private key pair.
- Private key is not shared with anyone. Public key can be shared.
- Once connection is established between sender and receiver, public keys are shared with each other.
- Sign (Private Key - Sender) => Encrypt (Public Key - Receiver) => Send File => Decrypt (Private Key - Receiver) => Verify (Public Key - Sender)
- Source: Sign + Encrypt, Destination: Decrypt + Verify
- Eg: PGP: Pretty Good Privacy, GPG: GNU Privacy Guard

Storage:

1. Private keys: On device, Hardware tokens
2. Public keys: Public key servers, directories, Websites, repositories, Embedded in email signatures, Direct sharing

---

SIGN: PRIVATE KEY - SENDER

- **Digital signing** is the process of attaching a **digital signature** to a message or file.
- Pass the data through a hash function to generate a fixed size fingerprint of the data.
- Encrypt the created hash using sender's private key. This creates a digital signature of the file.

ENCRYPT: PUBLIC KEY - RECEIVER

- Combine the plain text data and digital signature.
- Encrypt data using some algorithm and receiver's public key.

DECRYPT: PRIVATE KEY - RECEIVER

- Opposite of encryption. Convert into plain text so that the signature can be verified.

VERIFY: PUBLIC KEY - SENDER

- Opposite of signing. This step for authenticity (verify sender identity) and integrity (ensure file is not tampered)

---

Sender: Private - Signing, Public: Verification

Receiver: Private - Decrypt, Public: Encrypt

---

- Public key - **Encrypt** data or **verify** a signature
- Private key - **Decrypt** data or **create** a signature
- E.g: RSA (Rivest-Shamir-Adleman) is asymmetric encryption algorithm.

---

**TERMS:**

Cryptographic key:

- Sequence of characters used in encryption algorithm, to alter a sensitive data.
- Data is called plaintext and encrypted data is ciphertext.
- Plaintext + Key = Ciphertext

Key rotation:

- Replacing a key by generating a new key. It is used to limit the amount of data encrypted by a single key. Something like changing password of your account after some fixed number of months.

Salting:

- Adding a random sequence of characters, called salt, before or after the password.
- Just like we add salt to food to enhance it's taste, we salt a password to enhance it or make it stronger.
- After salting, the password is hashed.

Hashing:

- Hashing is a one-way process that converts a password to ciphertext using hash functions or algorithms.
- It creates a unique fixed length string or hash.
- Hashes of passwords are one way. They cannot be transformed back to the original plaintext password.
- Even tiny change in file or data changes the hash completely. This is useful to check if data is tampered or not.
- Server never stores password, it stores hash of the password.
- While login, the server calculates hash of the entered password and compares it with hash stored on server. If both hashes are equal, user is logged in sucessfully.

Hash-based Message Authentication Code (HMAC)?

- SSE-C - Does not store the encryption key.
- It stores in a randomly salted HMAC value of the encryption key.
- The salted HMAC value cannot be used to derive the value of the encryption key or to decrypt the contents of the encrypted object.
- That means, if you lose the encryption key, you lose the object.

What is encoding vs encrypting?
Encoding:

- Converting data from one format to another.
- Used to convinently transfer data across computers in a format that it can be easily used by different types of systems.
- Does not use any key. Just an encoding algorithm.
- Not secure
- Eg: ASCII, UNICODE, URL Encoding,Base64 encoding

Encrypting:

- Used to alter sensitive data in such a way that only intended system can understand it and unintended systems will find it meaningless.
- Uses keys and encryption algorithms.
- More secure
- Eg: RSA, AES 256

Scrambling or randomizing the data?

---

HTTPS website:

- SSL/TLS encryption protocol used in HTTPS, uses asymmetric encrption.
- The public key is present in website's SSL certificate and private key is installed on the origin server.
- The generation of this public and private keys happens during TLS handshake when a session is created.

---

Online key generation and encryption:

* https://travistidwell.com/jsencrypt/demo/
* https://www.javainuse.com/rsagenerator
* https://generate-random.org/encryption-key-generator

---
