TECHNOLOGIES:

1. React JS
2. Material UI
3. Axios
4. Redux toolkit
5. Redux-Saga
6. Formik
7. Yup
8. React router
9. NPM

---

RESPONSIBILITIES:

1. Gather and analyze business requirements with stakeholders.
2. Collaborated with UX designers to create visually appealing, responsive designs.
3. Collaborated with backend developers to integrate RESTful API.
4. Built reusable components to reduce code duplication and speed up development.
5. Create and maintain project documentation in JIRA Confluence pages.

---

POSSIBLE QUESTIONS:

---

STORY:

- Web portal for scholarship application and processing of needful students as CSR activity of Bluestar foundation.

---

---

UNDERSTANDING:

Entities/Modules:

1. Student -> Student signup, Student onboard, interview
2. Institute -> Institute onboard
3. Institute co-ordinator -> IC onboard
4. Admin - Onboarding

Admin is Bluestar person who sends invite to IC for onboarding institutes.
IC checks students from his institute which match the criteria for scholarship and onboard student.

Student interview, scheduling, selection process, if passed then processing fee and giving invoice.

---

Onboarding Workflow:

1. All users will be registered in Cognito.
2. Blue Star Admin team will register themselves through a link. Not sure if link should be displayed on website(mostly yes).
3. In cognito there will be 3 groups/roles – admin, icadmin, students.
4. Admin adds College details in DB via API.
5. Once college is added, Admin can also configure number of invitiations, selections.
6. For each college, Admin adds IC Emails in DB via API.
7. When IC onboards, he/she gets registered on Cognito with role icadmin.
8. IC adds Student emails upto specific number and sends invitations.
9. Student registers through onboarding email and registers on cognito with role student.

BlueStar Onboarding Workflow:

1. UI – BS Admin fills up registration form. Submits details to cognito and receives email verificaiton link. On Cognito success, there is another API call to backend for adding user to group.
2. Backend – Receives request to add BS admin to a group. Should we add details in Backend DB ?. If yes then all other registration details should be submitted.

Institute Onboarding Workflow:

1. UI - Admin does "Add Institute" by fillling form and adding basic details and email of institute coordinator.
2. Backend – UI does a API call of adding institute. Backend API receives basic institute details which is added in API and sends onboarding email to IC. That email contains front end link of filling up IC profile.
3. UI – Once the IC fills up the profile, UI submits login details directly to Cognito and on success submits details to Backend.
4. Backend – API receives a request add user to group on cognito and add details in DB.
5. Once IC is onboarded, he fills up insitute details also.

---

https://xd.adobe.com/view/d7ebc233-e399-4168-876e-57c4c95c450d-82b8/grid
