Shadowbox development services:

1. Overview: Desktop application in the healthcare domain. Used to integrate EHR with different diagnostic Labs and LIS systems for placing the lab test order of patients.
2. Technology: HTML, CSS, JavaScript, Node.js, Express.js, MongoDB, HIPPA training
3. Responsibilities:
   - Lab requisition form development and testing, patient HL7 data mapping.
   - Implement functionality using Model View Controller (MVC) design pattern.
   - Implement REST API using Node and Express JS and consume in frontend.
   - Write queries to store, retrieve and modify patient data in LIS with Mongo DB.
   - Discuss solutions and blockers in daily stand-up meetings with the US client.

---

POSSIBLE QUESTIONS:

---

Flow:

1. Get the patient data from EHR in HL7 format using API.
2. The data is mapped to the form and list of tests is shown.
3. On submitting the form, the data is saved in db.

---

- Orders were stored in a SFTP server
- Few labs use hl7 and few used apis
- Consider adding MVC in the resume and view would be the forms of labs
- Have the form generated from chatgpt. Just give it fields and description
- Patient data can be fetched from ehr or lis as well?
- Every lab will have its own db instance where it stores orders and lab results

- All data transferred in HL7 format. How to add node express mongo in this story?
- Some labs are api based. Like PLS, Careviso, Ovation labs - study them specially and thoroughly to create a story.

1. Data is pulled from EHR
2. Tests are selected and order is placed
3. Lab results are available

User portal and user related activity such as placing orders using node apis

- Entities in DB:

1. Patients
2. Lab orders - Of patients
3. Lab results - of patients

---
