1. Shell: Outermost layer of OS whith which the user can interact, give commands and obtain outputs from OS. It is a CLI.
2. Kernal: Core of the OS which interacts with the hardware. It has complete control over the system and manages the computer resources such as memory and CPU.
3. Script: Sequence of commands written in a file which can be run by the OS.
4. Bash:(Bourne Again Shell) is a CLI used to interact with Linux OS.
5. OS Layers: User => Application => Shell => Kernal => Hardware

---

Commands:

1. ls : list of all files and directory
2. pwd : print working directory
3. cd path_name : change directory
4. cd .. : move one level up
5. mkdir directory_name : make new directory
6. rmdir mydir1 : to remove directory mydir1
7. rmdir mydir1 mydir2 mydir3 : to remove multiple directories
8. rmdir -p mydir1/mydir2/mydir3/...../mydirN : remove command to delete a directory, including all the subdirectories
9. rm file_to_copy.txt : to delete a file
10. rm -r dir_to_remove/ : to delete empty directory
11. rm -rf dir_with_content_to_remove/ : to delete a non empty directory
12. find . -type f -delete : to delete all files from a directory
13. cp file_to_copy.txt new_file.txt : Copy file
14. cp -r dir_to_copy/ new_copy_dir/ : Copy directory -> in Linux, folders end with a forward slash (/)
15. mv old_file.txt new_named_file.txt : rename a file in the same directory
16. mv source_file destination_folder/ : move a file to a directory
17. cat > long_text_file.txt (Press enter key) `<some text content>` : create, view in terminal and concatenate a file
18. echo `<some string or env variable>` : returns the same string or the value of environment variable
19. touch file_name.txt : create an empty text file
20. grep "linux" long.txt : matches a regex in the given file
21. man `<command name>` : gives reference for a particular command
22. uname -a : give operating system information, its version
23. whoami : who am i - display user name
24. head file.txt : Displays first lines of a file
25. tail file.txt : Displays last lines of a file
26. diff a.txt b.txt : shows difference between two files
27. tar [options][archive-file] [file or dir to be archived] : Create and extract archive files
28. zip myfile.zip filename.txt : create zip file
29. unzip images.zip : extract contents from a zip file
30. chmod : Changes file permissions - r (read), w (write), x (execute)
31. chown owner_name file_name : change the owner of a file
32. kill `<Process ID or program name>` : Terminates programs
33. clear : clear the terminal
34. ping `<IP Address or Domain URL>` : test internet connection to that IP or URL
35. wget `<URL>` : CDN, used to download files
36. ssh user_name@host(IP/Domain_name) : securely connect to a remote server or system
37. sudo npm install package_name OR sudo yum install package_name : install a package or library, sudo is used to run the command as a super user
38. wc textfile.txt : word count in a file
39. passwd : Changes user password
40. / : Runs an executable
41. vim : Efficient text editing
42. neofetch : find OS and hardware information

---

https://kinsta.com/blog/linux-commands/

Online Linux terminals:

1. https://www.tutorialspoint.com/linux_terminal_online.php
2. https://www.masswerk.at/jsuix/index.html?ref=itsfoss.com
3. https://linuxcontainers.org/lxd/try-it/?ref=itsfoss.com

---

AWS CLI: check .sh files in resources
aws --version

AWS Cloudshell:-

1. https://docs.aws.amazon.com/cloudshell/latest/userguide/welcome.html
2. https://awscli.amazonaws.com/v2/documentation/api/latest/reference/index.html

Lambda functions:
aws lambda list-functions
aws lambda list-functions --region ap-south-1

---
