OSI Model: Open Systems Interconnection
Layer 7: Application layer
Layer 6: Presentation Layer
Layer 5: Session Layer
Layer 4: Transport Layer
Layer 3: Network Layer - Gives IP address, logical transmission of data over network
Layer 2: Data Link Layer - Logical Link Control (LLC), Media Access Control (MAC)
Layer 1: Physical layer - Transmission of bits between actual physical devices

---

TCP/IP Model: Transmission Control Protocol/ Internet Protocol
Layer 5: Application Layer - HTTP, HTTPs(HTTP-Secure - HTTP + SSL(Secure Socket Layer)), FTP, sFTP, SSH (Secure Shell), NTP, SMTP
Layer 4: Transport Layer - TCP/UDP - Computer ports
Layer 3: Network/Internet Layer(IP) - IP, ICMP, ARP
Layer 2: Data Link Layer - MAC, Ethernet Protocol
Layer 1: Physical layer

---

IP Address:

- Used to identify a device in the internet. Gives a logical address to my computer.
- Each computer in the world has a unique IP address.
- The loopback address 127.0.0.1 is generally known as localhost.

How it works:

1. Your device directly requests your Internet Service Provider which then grants your device access to the web and an IP Address is assigned to your device from the given range available.
2. Your internet activity goes through your service provider, and they route it back to you, using your IP address.
3. Your IP address can change. For example, turning your router on or off can change your IP Address (Public IP address).
4. When you are out from your home location your home IP address doesn’t accompany you. It changes as you change the network of your device.

Types:

1. Public IP Address - Set of IPs assigned by Internet Service Provider to the router
   - Dynamic IP Address - Router assigns one address to a device from set of IPs it has.
   - Static IP Address - Permanant Internet address - used by DNS server
2. Private IP Address - cmd - ipconfig - device IP adddress - not used for Internet, it never changes
3. Shared IP Address
4. Dedicated IP Address

---

IPv4: A.B.C.D - 4 segments

- It is a 32 bit address. 32 bits are divided into 4 groups of 8 bits each.
- Group of 8 bits is called an octet. These groups are seperated by a period.
- Each octet is an 8 bit which can have value from 00000000 to 11111111. It is represented in decimal format which can have values from 0 to 255.
- A,B,C,D can have values from 0 to 255
- 0.0.0.0 to 255.255.255.255
- Eg: 192.155.12.1
- Assigned by IANA(Internet Corporation For Internet Assigned Numbers Authority)

---

IPv6: A:B:C:D:E:F:G:H - 8 segments

- 64 bit IP address. Divide into 8 octets. Each binary octet is represesnted as hexadecimal value.
- A,B,C,D,E,F,G,H - Can have any hexadecimal value from 0 to ffff
- 0000:0000:0000:0000:0000:0000:0000:0000 to ffff:ffff:ffff:ffff:ffff:ffff:ffff:ffff
- Eg: 2001:db8:3333:4444:AAAA:6666:CCCC:8888
- :: (implies all 8 segments are zero)
- 2001:db8:: (implies that the last six segments are zero)
- :1234 :5678 (implies that the first six segments are zero)
- 2001:db8:1234 :5678 (implies that the middle four segments are zero)

---

URL:It is Web address = Protocol + domain name + path
Eg: https://cloudflare.com/learning/
1] https - protocol
2] /cloudflare.com/ - domain name
3] /learning/ - path

---

DNS: Convert Domain name of a website to IP address.

- Every website has an IP address, which we cannot remember.
- So DNS is used to map website URL to IP address like a phonebook.
- Website address or user friendly URL => DNS => IP Address.

DNS Resolver: Server on the Internet that converts domain names into IP addresses. Like a phonebook.

DNS Lookup process: User enters the URL in web browser => Search happens as follows:
Web browser cache => DNS Resolver cache => Root server => TLD Server =>Authoritative Name Server/ DNS Server => Sends IP address browser was looking for => Stored in DNS Resolver Cache => Stored in browser cache.

Domain name: has following parts

- TLD - Top Level Domain - .com, .gov etc
- Anything to the left of TLD is 2nd level domain or Primary domain
- Anything to the left of 2nd level domain is 3rd level domain or sub domain

Eg: https://www.shop.example.com

.com - Top Level Domain
.example - 2nd Level Domain/ Primary domain
.shop - 3rd Level Domain/ Sub domain

DNS Record - Entry of particular mapping of Wesite name and IP address in a DNS Database.

Types of DNS Records
A:

- The "A" in A record stands for "address."
- An A record shows the IP address for a specific hostname or domain.
- The A record only supports IPV4 addresses.
  AAAA:
- AAAA records are used to resolve a domain name to the IPV6 protocol address.
  CNAME/Canonical Name:
- DNS record that points a domain name (an alias) to another domain. In a CNAME record, the alias doesn't point to an IP address.
- Used for running multiple subdomains for different purposes on the same server.
- Eg: ftp.example.com - for file transfer and www.example.com - to serve webpages. Use a CNAME record to point both subdomains to example.com. The main domain example.com then points to the server's IP address using an A record.
  NS:
- A nameserver (NS) record specifies the authoritative DNS server for a domain.
- NS record helps point to where internet applications like a web browser can find the IP address for a domain name.

Domain name registrar: we can buy a domain name for website from them. Eg: GoDaddy
bit.ly - URL shortening service

---

Subnetting:

- Small network within a larger network. Split a single physical network into logical subnetworks.
- Logical division of IP network into smaller network parts to improve efficiency by reducing the path between source and destination - take shortest path.
- Use CIDR - Get a range of IP addresses.

---

MAC address:

- Physical address of the device
- Used in Data Link Layer
- IP Address => ARP (Address Resolution Protocol) => MAC address
- ARP finds the hardware address from IP address

---

Computer port: Point where two computers are connected on software level - an end to end connection in a network between two computers.

- In a computer port, the network connection begins in one compter and ends at another computer virtually.
- Port used in Transport layer - TCP or UDP decide which port a packet should go to.
- Port numbers decide which protocol in Layer 5 or application layer will the packet follow.

Port numbers:
HTTP: 80
HTTPS: 443
FTP: 20 & 21
SSH & SFTP: 22
SMTP: 25
DNS: 53

---
