1. Latency: Delay, (for my understaning - A tendency to be late -> 'late-ncy')

---

2. Throughput: The amount of something (such as material, data, etc.) that passes through something (such as a machine or system). A measure of how many units of information a system can process in a given amount of time.

---

3. Throttling: To decrease the internet speed on purpose.

---

4. Synchronous code, asynchronous code

---

5. Multithreading

---

6. Concurrent function execution

---

7. Shell scripting in Linux - Sequence of commands written in a file. The Unix OS or cloud server runs that script to automate a task. Something like a function in programming but for the operating system.

---

8. Cron job - Scheduled task which runs again and again after particular interval of time.

---

Scaling or scalable system - which can handle the traffic when it increases or decreases the usage of resources according to load.

Load balancing - Redirect requests to multiple systems when load increases.

High availability - Make one system available at multiple locations so that in case of disaster, if system at one location fails, the other one acts as a backup.

Robust systems - system which can bear a load or a huge impact and still start up and keep working instead of failing.

Terraform - Automate shell script

Proxy/ Proxy server: Gateway between end users and the internet which prevents cyber attackers from entering a private network.

Classless Inter-Domain Routing (CIDR) Range is an IP address allocation method that improves data routing efficiency on the internet. CIDR notation is a compressed way of representing a range of IP addresses. Specifying a range determines how many IP addresses are available to you.

Eg: 192.168.23.12/16
Number after slash indicates number of bits in the IP which can change values thus giving a flexible range.

---
