React Native Application Setup Step

Need to check below things is available

1. Node js

2. Java

   1. If environment variable are not set then need to set it using below step

      a. Right click My Computer and select Properties.

      b. On the Advanced tab, select Environment Variables, and then edit JAVA_HOME to point to where the JDK software is located, for example, C:\Program Files\Java\jdk1.6.0_02.

3. Android SDK

   a. Need to set ANDROID_HOME path in environment variables.

Project (Follow below steps to run project)

React Native App

1. npm install -g react-native-cli (If react native is not installed, If yes then just skip that step) below step must be executed within project folder
2. npm install
3. react-native link
4. react-native run-android

If any gradle related issue came need to clean gradle
a. Go to project android folder and hit above command gradlew clean

Run Application on emulator

Open Android studio

Click on AVD Manager Icon

Virtual device list will be there click on play icon of any device which is under Action button

If virtual device list is not there then need to download it

Run project using “react-native run-android” it will run application on emulator.

---

Nativebase.io, galio.io - UI Components for react native similiar to material ui for react.

- Reactstrap - another ui library for react js like material ui

React native project creation methods:

1. Expo CLI
   i. npm install --global expo-cli
   ii. expo init my-project

2. React native CLI
   i. npm install -g create-react-native-app
   ii. create-react-native-app my-project

npx react-native init my-project --template......
Template => npx create-react-native-app -t with-typescript

iii. cd ..(project folder)
iv. npm start / npm run android/ yarn android/ yarn web
v. Scan the QR code in expo client app installed on phone OR use android emulator in Android studio

React native Boilerplate templates
React native UI templates
React native UI Components/font/icons libraries

i.cd project_folder
ii.yarn start
iii.yarn android
iv.yarn web

react-native eject/ npm eject/ expo eject - to split the project into android and iOS folders
react-native run-android: to run the project

Jyoti:
i. go to android folder
ii. run gradlew clean
iii.go to project root folder
iv.react-native run-android

Sanjeevi:
i. go to android folder
ii. open build.gradle file from the android folder in android studio

Cntrl + Shift + A - open menu, search SDK manager
upgarde android studio

ME:
Run npm start in terminal in project root folder
Then run the project - gradle sync - build successful.......

Q1. How to generate an optimized apk file of react native app?

---
