AUTHENTICATION:

- Verifying the user credentials. Is the username and password combination correct. Should the user be allowed to login.
- OAuth2, SSO, Okta
- Cognito
- Microsoft azure AD

---

AUTHORISATION:

- Determine which parts of the app the user can access based on his/her role (user/admin) i.e to authorise the user/ is the user authorised to access this part of product?
- What actions the user can perform after login in
- Roles are stored in (JWT) token
- Hence token is sent while making API response
- Access to the product parts are given based upon the role of the user.
- For that the token is passed in the api call. The token contains the role.
- Login API rate limiting - To prevent brute force attack where the password is systematically guessed.
- Suppose there is a software application which has some premium features which is paid. Some users will buy it, some will not buy it. Based on the user type we must determine if the user is 'authorised' to use this feature of application.

RBAC:

- Role Based Access Control: Assign roles and permissions to users so that parts of software must be accessible to certain users like admin,other parts must be accessible to employees only.
- The role and permission is received in the API response for a particular resource.
- Based on the permissions in response, we can show/hide the screens or allow/deny actions to users on a screen.
- Permissions for create, read, update, delete (CRUD) a resource.
- Role is a collection of multiple permissions.
- User can have one or more roles assigned and through that he can inherit the permissions of those roles.

Why do we need authentication and authorisation?

- To protect our APIs
- To control the access which user gets to the app
- What is refresh token and auth token?
- What are cookies?
- What is an auth server?

---

FEATURES:

1. Sign in
2. Sign up
3. Sign up: Captcha, verify if you are a human - eg: select street lights from this image etc.
4. Sign up: Username should be unique at the time of registration - Message - ..... is already taken.
5. Sign up: Email verification
6. Sign up: Phone number verification - OTP
7. Third party user signup/signin - Eg: Signup with Google, sigup with FB, signup with email
8. Guest login
9. Login using OTP
10. Auto login
11. Passwordless signin
12. MFA/ 2FA / OTP signin - apps, hardware devices
13. AD (Active Directory) login
14. Password confirmation
15. Change password
16. Forgot/Reset password
17. Remember me/Stay signed in: Keep logged in on tab or browser close, store session
18. Store password: browser password manager
19. Security - Lock the account on number of unsucessfull logins. Eg: Wrong username or password entered for 4 times. "Account locked due to multiple failed login attempts. Please check your email".
20. Password expires after particular time duration and user has to set a new password.
21. Prevent password reuse. Don't allow the user to reuse the old password.
22. Auto logout after few days or session expiry or few hours of inactivity.
23. Logout of all devices
24. Cookies: Accept, Accept essential, Reject all.
25. Using HTTPS/ SSL protocol - Encrypt the cookies sent to the client device.
26. User can use app on only one machine at a time. If user logs in with same credentials on another machine at same time, user must be logged out. No simultaneous app use with same credentials on two different machines.
27. Detect if two users are sharing credentials for a premium account. Like netflix - same creds are not allowed to use at same time. Block or terminate account if found multiple times.

---

Libraries and services:

1. Clerk

https://codewithpawan.medium.com/authentication-and-authorization-in-node-js-a-comprehensive-guide-2755b57dce27

---

Tokens:

JWT

OAuth
