UNIT TESTING:

- React Testing Library: Lightweight package used to test react components.
- Jest: A JavaScript testing framework used with RTL.
- Jest runs tests in a **jsdom environment**, simulating a browser-like DOM for component rendering.

---

BDD:

- **Behaviour Driven Development**: Software development approach where we **define and test the expected behaviour** of application using **simple, natural language** that all stakeholders can understand.
- The **end to end test scenarios** are written in **feature files**. Uses Cucumber and playwright together.
- **Playwright**: A **Modern end-to-end testing framework** developed by **Microsoft** for **automating web browsers** and **testing web applications**.
- Playwright supports **cross-browser testing** (Chromium, Firefox, WebKit) and **parallel test execution**.
- **Cucumber**: A **BDD testing framework** that allows users to write test scenarios in plain, human-readable language.
- Cucumber uses **Gherkin language** which has **Given-When-Then, And syntax** so that non technical stakeholders can understand the test scenarions.
- Feature files have a **Feature heading** (indicating what is tested in given feature file), **Background** (default steps which run before each scenario), **Scenario** (starts with given and has steps).
- Scenarios have **step definitions** which map to actual test code in any given language such as Java, JavaScript or Python etc.
- Steps written in Cucumber are **executed through the step definitions**, and **those step definitions call Playwright code** to automate the browser.
- When the execution is completed a **test report HTML** is generated at the end.

---

- Unit testing: Should not connect to db, use mock data

---

UNIT TESTING: React Testing library + Jest

Files:
Jest.config.cjs
babel.config.cjs
SetupTests.js

Dependencies (dev dependencies):
BABEL:
@babel/core
@babel/preset-react
@babel/preset-env

---

TESTING LIBRARY:
@testing-library/react
@testing-library/user-event
@testing-library/jest-dom

---

JEST:
Jest
babel-jest
jest-transform-stub
jest-environment-jsdom

---

Test file name: componentname.test.js
Jest - JavaScript testing framework and test runner
React testing is library

---

Arrange, Act, Assert:

---

https://www.browserstack.com/guide/playwright-cucumber

SANITY TESTING/ BDD: Cucumber + Playwright

Dependencies (dev dependencies):
cucumber
@cucumber/cucumber
playwright
@playwright/test

File: cucumber.js - configuration
File: playwright.config.js

Gherkin syntax – Friendly English like syntax used by cucumber for non-technical people to understand.
Playwright: Open source automation library developed by Microsoft for end to end testing of web applications
Cucumber: Tool for BDD

Test file name: componentname.feature - feature file
Step file name: componentname.steps.js - step file

Add cucumber extension in vs code

Cucumber tests contain two different files: the feature file and the step definition file. The feature file contains the scenarios in Gherkin format that are Given, When, and then format, and the Step Definition file contains the actual code or implementation of test cases.

Feature: What feature the file is testing
Background: Runs before every scenario
Scenario: Given, Then, And, When

---

Steps:
Then('.....', async function(){
...
await...
.....
})

---

PO - page objects: Called inside steps function
Class Modal {
function(){}
}

---
