FUNDAMENTALS:
Models:

1. Prebuilt models
2. Custom models
3. Document analysis
4. Receipt model - customer name, address

- Gives JSON output.
- Azure AI Document Intelligence studio.
- Document Analysis: Extracting text from document through OCR and saving it as key value pairs.
- If you're using the Standard tier, and find your requests are being throttled, you can submit an Azure Support Request to have the default limits increased. The Free tier is not available if you are using a multi-service resource.

---

PREBUILT MODELS:

1. General document analysis
2. Invoice
3. Receipt
4. W2
5. ID
6. Business cards

Features:

1. Text extraction
2. Key-value pairs
3. Entities
4. Selection marks
5. Tables
6. Fields

General document analysis models:

1. Read model: Extracts text and languages from documents.
2. General document model: Extract key-value pairs and tables from document
3. Layout model: Extract tables, structure, checkboxes, radio buttons

---

CUSTOM MODELS:

- Create and train a custom model if our requirement does not get fullfiled using prebuilt model.
- Composed model: Consists of multiple custom models. Each submitted form is categorized as one of the custom form types and analyzed using the corresponding custom model.
- The larger the number of example forms you use to train a model, the more accurate it will be and the higher the confidence levels will be.

---

COMPOSITE MODELS:

- Handle different form types using a single service using a composed model.
- Composed model is created by combining two custom models in document intelligence studio. Useful when the form structure is changing or we are unsure which model to use. Function - StartCreateComposedModelAsync()

Custom models:

1. Custom template model: Consistent visual structure of form
2. Custom neural model: Structured, semi-structured or unstructured forms

---

DATA EXTRACTION:

- Use prebuilt form recognizer models
- Extract data from forms with Azure Document Intelligence
- Build a Document intelligence custom skill for Azure AI search

- Custom skill = Azure AI search + Document intelligence
- AI search enrichment pipeline is created and the fields of the form are added to the search index.

Custom skill types:

1. Azure Machine Learning (AML) custom skills - Enrich the index using ML model
2. Custom Web API skills - Enrich the index using web API

---
