ARTIFICIAL INTELLIGENCE:

- Technology which enables computers and machines to simulate human intelligence.
- Types:

1. Artificial Narrow Intelligence (ANI) OR Weak AI OR narrow AI:
2. Artificial General Intelligence (AGI) OR Strong AI
3. Artificial Super Intelligence (ASI): Cuurently hypothetical or still in fiction

- Applications:

1. Speech recognition/NLP - understanding written and spoken language e.g: text-to-speech and vice-versa. Eg.Google assistant, Alexa, Siri, Microsoft Cortana etc.
2. Customer service
3. Generative AI
4. Computer vision: Image classification, Object detection, Semantic segmentation, Image analysis, Face detection, analysis, and recognition, Optical character recognition (OCR)
5. Recommendation engines
6. Robotic process automation
7. Automated stock trading
8. Fraud/ Anamoly detection/ Time series data analysis
9. Document intelligence: Deals with managing, processing, and using high volumes of a variety of data found in forms and documents
10. Knowledge mining: Extracting information from large volumes of often unstructured data to create a searchable knowledge store.

- Challenges:

1. Technological singularity - AI will perform all the jobs.
2. AI impact on jobs - Current perception is that AI will take away the jobs of humans, but this perception must be changed. The jobs requirements or job types will change due to AI, not finish.
3. Privacy
4. Bias and discrimination - Mitigating unfairness in AI systems
5. Accountability - No one can be held responsible if AI systems fail due to lack of legislature and legal systems. Hence Responsible AI is being developed.
