MACHINE LEARNING:

Types:

1. Supervised machine learning
2. Unsupervised machine learning
3. Semi-supervised learning
4. Reinforcement learning: Process in which a model learns to become more accurate for performing an action in an environment based on feedback in order to maximize the reward.

Models:

- Generative models: Translation, text summarization
- Discriminative models: Sentiment analysis, image recognition
- Language models: Entity recognition, Question answering

Working of an ML:

1. A Decision Process: Make a prediction or classification.
2. Error Function: Compare it with the expected output.
3. Model Optimization Process:Adjust weights and fine tune it until output matches expectation.

- Training:Making the model to calculate output based on multiple inputs.
- Inferencing:Predicting new values after training a model.
- Features: Training data is past observation values. This is prepared by data scientists or data analysts. Feature is usually a vector - an array of multiple values. So feature x would be [x1,x2,x3,x4,x5].
- Label: The value of the thing the model is trained to predict. Possible outcomes.

Eg: A ML model created to predict the type of cat. Here features would be ear size, height, length, weight, fur color etc. Label would be the type of cat based on the given input features.

Supervised: 80/20

- Train the model to establish relationship between faetures and label in the past to predict values of future labels for given features.
- Training data includes features and labels. Typically 80% of dataset is used to train the model and 20% is used for testing or evaluating the model performance.
- The purpose of training data is to make the model learn by adjusting it's weights and node bias.
- In this process, the model knows the expected outcome from training data and is able to make better use of new inputs so that it does not deviate from expected outcome.

1. Regression - Model predicts a numeric value
2. Classification: Binary - Only two categories: binary true/false or positive/negative prediction
3. Multiclass: Multiple categories of labels.
4. Multilabel classification : An item may belong to multiple labels.

Training a supervised ML model:

- Its an iterative process. Train -> validate -> evaluate
- The training data is randomly split into multiple datasets.
- One dataset will be used to train the model, another will be held back used later to validate the outcome.

Input: x
Actual/Expected output: y
Predicted output: ŷ (called y-hat)

Train the model to make values of y and ŷ closer.

Unsupervised: cluster unlabeled datasets (subsets called clusters)

- Clustering: Grouping the items into clusters by observing similarities in the features.

---

1.Regression

- Linear regression function
- The linear regression gives a equation of a straight line which can be used to calculate outcomes i.e. for a given value of x in a graph calculate y.

---

2.Binary classification

- Logistic regression
- Needs to decide either 0 or 1 i.e true or false
- sigmoid function to determine the probability of output. Probability exists between 0.0 and 1.0.
- Threshold of 0.5. If greater than threshold then true else false.

---

3.Multiclass classification

- Contains multiple classes for a given label. So the label might beling to any class.
- Gives probability distribution of all the labels. All the probabilities add upto 1.
- Eg - softmax function giving output - [0.2, 0.3, 0.5]. The elements in the vector represent the probabilities for classes 0, 1, and 2 respectively; so in this case, the class with the highest probability is 2.

---

4.Clustering

- Observations are grouped into clusters based on similarities in their data values, or features.
- The label is a cluster
- Training algorithm for clustering -> k-means clustering

---

ML Algorithms:

1. Neural networks
2. Linear regression - used to predict numerical values.
3. Logisitc regression - supervised learning algorithm - categorical response variables, such as “yes/no” answers to questions.
4. Clustering - unsupervised learning - identify patterns in data so that it can be grouped.
5. Decision trees - can be used for both predicting numerical values (regression) and classifying data into categories.
6. Random forests - machine learning algorithm predicts a value or category by combining the results from a number of decision trees.

---

DEEP LEARNING:

- “Deep” in deep learning is refers to the depth of layers in a neural network. So more than 3 layers in network is deep learning network.
- Initially the weights are assigned randomly. The based on predictions they are changed to match the expected output.
- A loss function compares the predicted value with the known values.
- The changes in the weight are back propogated in the layers and the old weights are replaced.
- This process is repeated until the model starts predicting correctly.
- Deep learning requires large computational power which can be offered by GPU. However managing multiple GPUs on premises demands many internal resources and is costly to scale.

Deep learning neural networks, or artificial neural networks:

1. Convolutional neural networks (CNNs):
   Used primarily in computer vision and image classification applications, can detect features and patterns within an image, enabling tasks, like object detection or recognition. These networks harness principles from linear algebra, particularly matrix multiplication, to identify patterns within an image.
2. Recurrent neural network (RNN):
   Natural language and speech recognition applications as it leverages sequential or times series data. Identified by their feedback loops.

---

Evaluating a model performance:

Evaluation metrics:

1. Linear regression - MAPE (Mean absolute percentage error), WAPE(Weighted absolute percentage error)
2. Binary classification - Accuracy, Precision....

Classification models - Accuracy
Regression - Precision, Recall & F1 Score

Confusion matrix

1. True Positive
2. False Positive
3. True Negative
4. False Negative

---

ML Pipeline stages:

1. Data ingestion
2. Data processing
3. Model training
4. Evaluation
5. Deployment
6. Performance monitoring & Logging
7. Scalability
8. Resource optimisation
9. Governance & Compliance
10. Security
11. User feedback
12. Iterative improvement
13. Collaboration with cross functional teams
14. Documentation

MLOps: Many types of ML models are present. The engineer should choose one based on requirements and usecase. He should try and test all models and find out which one gives best outcome.

---
