RESPONSIBLE AI:

- It is certain set of guidlines, practices to follow to prevent misuse of AI technology.
- AI Principles
- AI Governance
- Responsible AI with regards to AI bots for NSFW, AI girlfriend etc.

---

MICROSOFT:
Responsible AI principles:

1. Fairness: All AI systems should treat people fairly, regardless of race, belief, gender, sexuality, or other factors.
2. Reliability and safety: All AI systems should give reliable answers with quantifiable confidence levels.
3. Privacy and security: All AI systems should secure and protect sensitive data and operate within applicable data protection laws.
4. Inclusiveness: All AI systems should be available to all users, regardless of their abilities.
5. Transparency: All AI systems should operate understandably and openly.
6. Accountability: All AI systems should be run by people who are accountable for the actions of those systems.

---

GOOGLE:
Responsible AI principles:

1. Be socially beneficial.
2. Avoid creating or reinforcing unfair bias.
3. Be built and tested for safety.
4. Be accountable to people.
5. Incorporate privacy design principles.
6. Uphold high standards of scientific excellence.
7. Be made available for uses that accord with these principles.

In addition to the above objectives, Google will not design or deploy AI in the following application areas:

1. Technologies that cause or are likely to cause overall harm. Where there is a material risk of harm, we will proceed only where we believe that the benefits substantially outweigh the risks, and will incorporate appropriate safety constraints.
2. Weapons or other technologies whose principal purpose or implementation is to cause or directly facilitate injury to people.
3. Technologies that gather or use information for surveillance violating internationally accepted norms.
4. Technologies whose purpose contravenes widely accepted principles of international law and human rights.

---
