NEURAL NETWORKS:

How it works:

- Neural networks, are comprised of node layers, containing an input layer, one or more hidden layers, and an output layer. Each node, or artificial neuron, connects to another and has an associated weight and threshold. If the output of any individual node is above the specified threshold value, that node is activated, sending data to the next layer of the network. Otherwise, no data is passed along to the next layer of the network by that node.
- Deep neural networks consist of multiple layers of interconnected nodes, each building upon the previous layer to refine and optimize the prediction or categorization. This progression of computations through the network is called forward propagation. The input and output layers of a deep neural network are called visible layers. The input layer is where the deep learning model ingests the data for processing, and the output layer is where the final prediction or classification is made.
- Another process called backpropagation uses algorithms, like gradient descent, to calculate errors in predictions and then adjusts the weights and biases of the function by moving backwards through the layers in an effort to train the model. Together, forward propagation and backpropagation allow a neural network to make predictions and correct for any errors accordingly. Over time, the algorithm becomes gradually more accurate.
- Adjust the weights on inputs based on trail and error.

---

LLM:

How it works:

1. Prompt : Text input given to LLM
2. Tokenization: The first step in training a transformer model is to decompose the training text into tokens - in other words, identify each unique text value.
3. Embeddings: To create a vocabulary that encapsulates semantic relationships between the tokens, we define contextual vectors, known as embeddings, for them.
4. Attention layer in encoder and decoder.

- Derive semantic meaning from corpus (text body).
- Break words in the corpus and assign every word, partial word, combination of words and punctuations a token/number.
- Same token is used for repeated words.
- Tokenization - we get an array of tokens
- Text processing before tokenization: Text normalisation, stop word removal, n-grams, stemming, Frequency analysis: to get general meaning or crux of the text by checking repeatative words.
- Embeddings: encoding of language tokens as vectors (multi-valued arrays of numbers). Every token in the sentence is assigned as vector - multi valued array.
- Assign every word a 3D vector - an array of x y and z coordinate in space.
- The vector represents a co-ordinate in 3D space - [x,y,z]
- Some tokens are closer to one another in a dimension so they are more semantically related. Eg: dog[10,y,z], cat[10,y,z], rat[10,y,z] all might have same value in x co-ordinate so they are animals.
- Tokens that are commonly used in the same context are closer together dimensionally than unrelated words.
- Confidence score - between 0 to 1
- In complex LLMs - Vectors are more dimension than 3D.

---
