MICROSERVICES:

- A software architecture pattern where application is divided into multiple services.
- Each service is responsible for a functionality. Eg: User authentication, Payments, Catalog etc.
- Services are loosely coupled, autonomously developed and deployed.
- Different teams can work on different components and also use different tech stacks for different components.
- Services communicate with each other using API.
- Unlike monolithic architecture which is large and tighly coupled and slow to change, any change made in microservice is released fast.
- Making changes to one component does not break the other components. Also the complete application does not need to be redeployed.
- Microservices usually use containers.
- Frontend does not have microservice. It's usually used for backend. So one backend in node and another one in python.

---

DISTRIBUTED SYSTEMS:

- Collection of separate and independent software/hardware components, called nodes, that are networked and work together coherently by coordinating and communicating through message passing or events, to fulfill one end goal.
- Nodes could be unstructured or highly structured, depending on the system requirements. And the complexities of the system are hidden to the end user, making the whole system appear as a single computer to it users.

---

PROXY SERVER:

- A proxy server is a server (a computer system or an application) that acts as an intermediary for requests from clients seeking resources from other servers. Eg: nginx
- It acts as a gateway between end users and the internet which prevents cyber attackers from entering a private network.
- A reverse proxy is a type of proxy server that retrieves resources on behalf of a client from one or more servers.

---
