QUICK NOTES - INTERVIEW:

- It is an open source automation server which is used to automate various stages in a CICD pipeline such as build, test and deploying of applications.

---

JENKINS:

- Open source automation server.
- Used for automating build, test and deploy parts of CICD pipeline in DevOps.
- Customisable with plugins useful for automating repetitive tasks, making process faster.

---

Getting started:

1. Install Jenkin - Runs locally
2. Locate initial admin password and login
3. Install suggested plugins
4. Create first admin user

Run jenkins on => Local machine/ Container/ Cloud

- Install/uninstall/upgrade/downgrade plugins
- Global tool configuration
- Schedule build in triggers section of job

---

JOBS: A set of tasks which jenkins can manage.

New Item/ New job:

1. Freestyle project
2. Pipeline
3. Multi configuration project
4. Folder
5. Multibranch pipeline
6. Organization folder

Job configuration options:

1. General
2. Source code management
3. Triggers
4. Environment
5. Build steps - Use Execute windows batch command for windows, Execute shell for linux, mac, docker
6. Post build actions - Can archive the build artifacts

Job page:

1. Status
2. Changes
3. Workspace: Dedicated directory given to each job where it stores it's files generated during build.
4. Build now
5. Configure
6. Delete project
7. Rename

Build number page:

1. Status
2. Changes
3. Console output
4. Edit build information
5. Delete build
6. Timings
7. Git build data

TERMS:

- Artifact: Output generated by a job
- Build: Process of running a job
- Build step: Tasks in the job

---

PARAMETERS:

- General => This project is parameterized

1. String parameter: Windows - %STRING_PARAMETER_NAME%, Mac or linux or docker - $STRING_PARAMETER_NAME
2. Choice parameter: Windows - %CHOICE_PARAMETER_NAME%, Mac or linux or docker - $CHOICE_PARAMETER_NAME
3. Boolean parameter: Windows - %BOOLEAN_PARAMETER_NAME%, Mac or linux or docker - $BOOLEAN_PARAMETER_NAME

---

VIEWS: Displays the jobs based on a criteria like a filter.

FOLDERS: Group things together. Can contain jobs, views and other folders.

- Views and Folders are useful to organizae the jobs on the dashboard.
- For creating the views for jobs within folder - Use Recurse in subfolders option.
- Important: Deleting the view does not delete the jobs inside it. But deleting the folder will delete the jobs inside it!!! BE CAREFUL!!!

---

PIPELINE AS CODE:

- Written in Jenkinsfile

Example

```
pipeline {
    agent any
    options {
        buildDiscarder(logRotator(daysToKeepStr: '10', numToKeepStr: '10'))
        timeout(time: 12, unit: 'HOURS')
        timestamps()
    }
    triggers {
          cron '@midnight'
    }
    stages {
        stage('Initialize') {
            steps {
                echo 'Initializing..'
            }
        }
        stage('Build') {
            steps {
                echo 'Building..'
            }
        }
        stage('Test') {
            steps {
                echo 'Testing..'
            }
        }
        stage('Deploy') {
            steps {
                echo 'Deploying....'
            }
        }
    }
	post {
        always {
            echo 'This will run after all stages, regardless of success or failure'
        }
        success {
            echo 'This will run only if the pipeline is successful'
        }
        failure {
            echo 'This will run only if the pipeline fails'
        }
    }
}

```

---

Jenkinsfile:

- Scripted pipeline: Pipeline as a code.
- Use groovy script for some complex logics

---

TERMS:

1. Pipeline: A Jenkins pipeline is a suite of plugins that support implementing and integrating continuous delivery pipelines. Pipelines are defined using a domain-specific language (DSL) called Groovy, which provides powerful features for modeling complex workflows as code.
2. Node: Nodes are machines that are part of the Jenkins environment, where work can be distributed. The main Jenkins server is called the master node, while additional machines that perform work are called agent nodes. Nodes facilitate parallel execution of tasks, enhancing scalability.
3. Job/Project: A job or project is a fundamental unit of work in Jenkins, defining tasks like building code, running tests, and deploying applications. Jobs can be triggered by various events, such as code commits, scheduled times, or manual triggers, and can be configured through the Jenkins UI or as code.
4. Build: A build represents a single execution of a job, encompassing the series of steps defined in the job configuration. Each build has a unique number and keeps a record of logs, artifacts, and results, allowing for tracking and troubleshooting the history of job executions.
5. Plugin: Plugins extend Jenkins' functionality, offering integrations with a vast array of tools and platforms. With over a thousand plugins available, Jenkins can integrate with version control systems, build tools, cloud providers, and much more, making it highly adaptable to diverse development environments.
6. Freestyle Project: A freestyle project is a simple, flexible way to configure a job in Jenkins. It allows users to specify build steps, configure triggers, and define post-build actions without needing to write code. This is ideal for straightforward automation tasks.
7. Declarative Pipeline: A declarative pipeline is a more user-friendly way to define a Jenkins pipeline using a simpler, structured syntax. It is part of the Pipeline suite of plugins and makes it easier for users to create and maintain complex build pipelines.
8. Scripted Pipeline: A scripted pipeline provides more advanced control and flexibility over the pipeline configuration, using Groovy-based syntax. It allows for dynamic and complex scripting, giving experienced users the ability to customize their pipelines extensively.
9. Workspace: The workspace is a directory on a node where Jenkins executes a job. It contains the source code, temporary files, and build artifacts during the job execution. Each job has its own workspace, which can be cleaned up or archived as needed.
10. Artifact: Artifacts are files produced by the build process, such as compiled binaries, packages, or documentation. Jenkins allows users to archive and store these artifacts for future reference, deployment, or distribution, facilitating efficient management of build outputs.
11. View: Views in Jenkins allow users to organize jobs into groups and manage them more efficiently. Views can be configured to show specific jobs based on criteria like name patterns or job status, providing a customizable way to monitor and manage projects.
12. Credential: Credentials in Jenkins are securely stored data, such as usernames, passwords, or API tokens, used for accessing external systems and services. Managing credentials securely is critical for ensuring the security and integrity of Jenkins pipelines and integrations.

---

YOUTUBE TUTORIAL:

1. Running Jenkins in Docker container
2. Creating multibranch pipeline with git
3. Trigger Jenkins build automatically
4. Configure build tools in Jenkins and Jenkins file
5. Jenkins Pipeline

---

LINKEDIN LEARNING TOPICS:

LEARNING JENKINS:

1] Installation
2] Jobs
3] Global tools, parameters, environment variables, jobs schedules, job workspace
4] View & Folders

---

JENKINS ESSENTIALS:

1] Jenkins and DevOps
2] Jenkins Pipeline
3] Integrating jenkins with version control systems
4] Agents and distributed builds
5] Artifacts and testing
6] Securing jenkins

---

JENKINS ON AWS:

1] Setup Jenkins
2] Create build environment
3] Connect Jenkins with webhooks
4] Deployment to elastic beanstalk
5] Shutting down AWS resources

---

LINKS:

Youtube tutorial:

1. https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=pMO26j2OUME&list=PLy7NrYWoggjw_LIiDK1LXdNN82uYuuuiC&index=1,
2. https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=7KCS70sCoK0&list=PLy7NrYWoggjw_LIiDK1LXdNN82uYuuuiC&index=6

Exercise files: LinkedIn learning

1. https://github.com/LinkedInLearning/learning-jenkins-3003221
2. https://github.com/LinkedInLearning/essential-jenkins-2468076

---
