CONTAINERS:

- **Lightweight**, **standalone**, **portable** and **executable software packages** that include everything needed to run a piece of software, such as the code, runtime, libraries, dependencies and system tools.
- Executable package = application code + dependencies (frameworks, libraries, runtime) + configuration (commands to run, scripts, environment variable, ports)
- They ensure consistency and reproducibility across different environments.
- Application and its dependencies are packaged as a single unit called container and deployed on container platform. It makes them reusable.
- Multiple packages can be deployed on a container platform and all of them use the same OS and same hardware. Unlike VM which has a guest OS.
- Microservices built using different technologies, different frameworks can be packaged as separate containers and those multiple containers can be deployed on single container platform.
- Orchestration - Making automated tasks work with each other in a sequence. Container orchestration - Kubernetes - Automatically handle container deployment, scaling, availability etc.

---

VIRTUAL MACHINES:

---

CONTAINER VS VM:

Infrastructure/Hardware/Server => Hypervisor => Host OS => Virtual Machines [Application, Dependencies, Guest OS]

Infrastructure/Hardware/Server => Host OS => Container Engine/Platform/Docker => Containers [Application, Dependencies]

- Containerization:
- Virtualization:

**Key Difference Between Containers & VMs**

| Feature        | Containers (Docker)     | Virtual Machines (VMs)    |
| -------------- | ----------------------- | ------------------------- |
| Kernel         | Uses host's kernel      | Has its own kernel        |
| Isolation      | Process-level isolation | Full OS isolation         |
| Startup Time   | **Fast**(seconds)       | **Slow**(minutes)         |
| Resource Usage | **Lightweight**         | **Heavy (more RAM, CPU)** |
| Runs on        | **Host OS directly**    | **Hypervisor**            |

Docker **containers do NOT run on a hypervisor** . Instead, they **share the host OS kernel** but run in isolated user spaces.

- **Containers use the host OS kernel** (they do NOT emulate one).
- **They do not run a full OS** , only the necessary system libraries.
- **They do not run on a hypervisor** , unlike virtual machines.

This makes them **lightweight, fast, and efficient** compared to VMs.

---

MICROSERVICES:

- A software architecture pattern where application is divided into multiple services.
- Each service is responsible for a functionality. Eg: User authentication, Payments, Catalog etc.
- Services are loosely coupled, autonomously developed and deployed.
- Different teams can work on different components and also use different tech stacks for different components.
- Services communicate with each other using API.
- Unlike monolithic architecture which is large and tighly coupled and slow to change, any change made in microservice is released fast.
- Making changes to one component does not break the other components. Also the complete application does not need to be redeployed.
- Microservices usually use containers.
- Frontend does not have microservice. It's usually used for backend. So one backend in node and another one in python.

---

DISTRIBUTED SYSTEMS:

- Collection of separate and independent software/hardware components, called nodes, that are networked and work together coherently by coordinating and communicating through message passing or events, to fulfill one end goal.
- Nodes could be unstructured or highly structured, depending on the system requirements. And the complexities of the system are hidden to the end user, making the whole system appear as a single computer to it users.

---

PROXY SERVER:

- A proxy server is a server (a computer system or an application) that acts as an intermediary for requests from clients seeking resources from other servers. Eg: nginx
- It acts as a gateway between end users and the internet which prevents cyber attackers from entering a private network.
- A reverse proxy is a type of proxy server that retrieves resources on behalf of a client from one or more servers.

---

CONTENT DELIVERY NETWORK (CDN):

- Distributed file system cache.
- If user is located far away from origin server, he will experience latency on making request.
- Hence there is a group of CDN servers all around the world (at different Points of presence).
- Eg: Cloudflare - Provides CDN, DNS and VPN services.
- User might be far from origin server but he will be closer to any one CDN server hence the load time is reduced.
- On making request if static assets and resources of website are not available in local cache of CDN server, it is fetched from origin server and stored in the cache and served to the user.
- Caching policies:
  - FIFO
  - LRU
  - LFU - Least Frequently Used

---
