DEBUGGING SKILLS:

Basic debugging:

- Breakpoints, debugger, console.log()
- Trace the flow, how data is passed between functions
- Search for keywords: current file, entire project
- Trial and error: Isolate the issue
- Reproduce the error
- Minimize timewaste - focus on quickly reproducing the bug/defect/error

Knowledge:

- Search effectively: Learn to quickly google errors and find relevant solutions
- Learning things quickly
- Gain a strong understanding of the codebase: know how to explore and navigate a project repository.
- Understand fundamental programming concepts, including data structures, loops, conditionals, and built-in methods.

Thinking:

- Debugging comes with practice
- Debugging in mind: mentally trace and reason through your code before or during debugging
- If its taking time, ask for help or work with team mates, because we have deadlines
- Think calmly. Break the problem into smaller tasks. Think in steps. What I want? What steps I need to take to reach there?
- Shifting the gears???

Testing:

- Testing the code regularly throughout the development process.
- Ensure that new fixes or features do not introduce regression issues (i.e., breaking existing functionality).
- Validate edge cases to ensure robustness and reliability.
- Implementing complex or connected tasks or lot of scenarios - Make a list of scenarios/combinations or a matrix

Error handling:

- Learn how to identify and monitor component re-renders in React (e.g., using console.log() or React Developer Tools).
- Understand and troubleshoot common JavaScript errors such as “cannot read property of undefined”, type errors, and reference errors.
- Effective error handling techniques: null checks, optional chaining (?.), and default fallbacks (|| [], || {}).
- List of the most frequent JavaScript and React errors to recognize and handle them gracefully.

Code quality:

- Follow best coding practices and write optimized, efficient code that minimizes unnecessary loops and complex conditions.
- Improve coding productivity through effective workflows, tools, and habits.
- Refactoring the code from time to time to maintain clarity, performance, and scalability.

Misc:

- Rebuild/restart project, clear the cache, hard refresh in browser
- API Error: Before going to API team, check the API request body and endpoint URL, query and path parameters.
- Environment Error: Something working on dev but not on prod? Check the environment variables, compare the code, compare the logs, find out the difference between them.

---
